Having purified your souls
By your obedience to the truth,
For a sincere brotherly love,
Love one another.
Earnestly.
From a pure heart. so now, for the first time,
we get a glimpse of what this new conduct might look like, what holiness might look like, what the new passions, what fruit the new passions of hope and joy.
2025 are going to produce.
Love one another.
earnestly from the heart still hasn't said anything about the outsiders yet that's coming since you have been born again not of perishable seed but of imperishable sound familiar
Familiar.
12. Through the living and abiding word of God. For all flesh is like grass, all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever.
forever. This word is the good news that was preached to you.
All of that right there,
Is about being born again.
So now in verse three, these are the only two places.
Verse 3.
God, according to His great mercy, caused you to be born again through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
And now,
23, verse 23.
You have been born again
And now he's got a whole new complex of ideas.
Not of perishable seed,
But of imperishable.
Namely, I think it's Namely,
Through the living and abiding word.
No, nothing was said like that in verse 3.
God calls you to be born again through the resurrection unto a living hope nothing about
Your participation in that process of hearing a word,
And now that's what's going on here.
You have been born again through...
the living and abiding word.
And I think the fact that he calls the word living and abiding,
It's alive, it lasts forever, alive, lasts forever, is to say, this is a hope.
We're not we're not moving away from a theme of hope
If the, if the word that is caused to be born again, the seed that has come in there and germinated and produces new baby,
It's living and abiding. You're going to live and abide.
That's the Dna.
45. Living a Bible. Forever.
So there's hope, massive hope.
And then contrast it with all the
Flesh, all flesh is like grass, all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, the flower falls, but.
Back to the word. The word of the Lord remains forever abiding.
Remains forever
And then,
He nails it.
This word,
Is,
The, the.
Good news.
that was preached to you.
You say, Ok,
So how did I get born again?
Verse 3 says, God did it.
God calls me to the door again.
It says the resurrection of Jesus
Turned the new birth into a
A living hope new birth.
And this says it happened
When you
Through your hearing the gospel.
God does not cause anyone to be born again apart from the Word of God.
Which is why I don't believe in.
Baptismal regeneration.
Meaning
Bible.
Baptizing a child, the child is born into the family.
Born again in the family.
Because I don't think the child can do what this verse says is done in.
The new birth.
Since you have been born again,
Through
The word
Which
Abides forever
And here's what I mean. That word,
Is
The good news that was preached,
To you.
So you heard it. faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, and when you heard it,
God
I awaken you to see it, know it, love it, embrace it, and you were born again. Thank you.
So there's a miracle of God piece
And there's a
human hearing the gospel piece,
And these are not separable.
One from verse 3, one from verse 20.
Three, four,
And,
Therefore, if you don't know right now, if you're born again, you're not left.
With nothing to do.
You can't make it happen. God is the one who makes it happen. But you can listen.
To the Word.
you can go to the word i'll give you a story i was in germany and it was easter sunday.
And...
They were having baptisms and testimonies on Easter Sunday morning in this German church.
and.
They told the story,
Of this one who's going to be baptized on Sunday,
That she was a Jehovah's Witness and distraught and never having assurance, and she knew these Christians didn't think what her views were were correct.
And they said to her,
Just.
Read the word. God will show you.
So she was,
Thinking she would commit suicide on.
Good Friday.
And she said, I'll give it one.
More.
Chance.
She opened her Bible to the Gospel of Luke, knelt down in her bed, read the Gospel of Luke straight through.
And she was testifying, I'm listening to this,
It's just yesterday, Easter Sunday morning, two days later, 11 a.m.
That.
God.
Safe travels.
God opened her eyes.
To see,
Through.
Through the Word, not preached this time, but just the good news, read...
She was born again.
She had read the Bible a hundred times.
But God used the word to do it then.
Everybody was just
Off the charts happy because they had dealt with her for a long
Time.
So if you,
Like her are are
Are not born again and are desperate.
Then
Open the Bible every day
And don't let go of it until God shows up to make it precious.
We've skipped over verse twenty two.
Which has some interesting questions in it.
Having purified your souls,
By your obedience to the truth
Four, very important word.
For a sincere brotherly love,
Love one another earnestly,
From,
The heart.
Tackle this first and we'll take another break.
Um.
Purified,
Your souls
Bye.
Your obedience.
What are we to make of that?
Sounds backwards, kind of.
hasn't it?
didn't christ come in purify the soul and and the result of a purified soul a spirit indwelt soul a sanctified soul starts to pray
Produce obedience.
I think the answer lies in
The word truth here.
I think this truth,
Is this goodness?
And obedience to it is faith.
And I don't think I'll take the time, but I've got one, two, three, four, five,
4 verses, two of them from the Bible.
First Peter,
And two from Paul.
that
Show that there are numerous times in the New Testament where.
The proper response to the good news is to obey it,
Which doesn't mean?
Start doing, you know, start keeping the Ten Commandments. it means what does the good news require?
Faith. believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. How do you obey the good news? believe.
So I think what this is saying is having purified your soul by faith in the gospel.
So this
This obedience means faith.
And truth means gospel.
I can't write that like that
And here's a contextual confirmation of that.
Because
You are
5. You've purified your souls by obeying the truth. 4. What color can I use?
Yeah.
The mess.
Four
See that right there?
For sincere love of them,
Of the brethren.
That means,
Love, which is the sum of all obedience,
Is the result
Of.
Obeying the truth, which means obeying the truth can include love.
Are you with me?
This is
Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for love,
Four, oh, brotherly love. therefore love one another.
Well, if it's if you're um, being purified by your obedience to the truth so that you can love, the love can't be the obedience.
Which confirms no obedience is faith.
Faith in the Word releases you for love.
Galatians five, six, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision, is of any avail, but faith working through love.
Or First Timothy, one five, the the aim of our charge is love that comes from a pure heart and sincere faith that comes from faith.
So I think obedience to the truth is faith in the gospel that purifies your soul,
And out of that new purity, you love each other.
Not the other way.
The other way around.
See if there's anything to stick in here before you take a break
Summary, and then we'll take a break.
There's one of the one of these new. This is my summary of chapter one.
God exists,
He has had great mercy.
He foreknew Christ. All these numbers refer to the verses.
He chose us,
He manifested Christ in history,
Christ shed his blood for us.
These are in in causal order. this is how linear I am.
These are all "chchchchchch"
One line.
was raised
He was raised from the dead.
The gospel of his saving work was preached to us.
God caused us to be born again.
Through the Word,
Thus we saw
In our new birth, our new awakening, we saw the beauty of Christ.
We saw our unfading inheritance.
And thus we escape from our former ignorance,
Through the work of Christ, we believed in Christ,
And in God the Father,
And in this faith, the glorified joy streamed into our hearts.
These new passions replaced old passions which were rooted in ignorance.
This faith and hope and joy have now been tested by fire and trials.
And there's
fruit of these new refined passions, obedience to Jesus, obedience to the Father, have replaced the old feudal ways of our fathers, and we now love each other.
Each
Other
24, earnestly from the
The heart.
And in the next unit,
we'll get we'll get far enough in our last session so that the whole picture of peter's impact on society
Can be clear.